you
this lecture is about document lines
normalization in the vector space model
in this lecture we're going to continue
the discussion of the vector space model
in particular we're going to discuss the
issue of docking the length
normalization so far in the lectures
about the vector space model we have
used the various signals from the
document to assess the matching of the
document with a query in particular we
have considered the term frequency the
count of a term in a document we have
also considered its global statistics
such as ID F inverse document frequency
but we have not considered talking
demands so here I show two example
documents t4 is much shorter
with only 100 words these six on the
other hand has a 5,000 words if you look
at the matching of these query words we
see that in d6 there are more matchings
of the query words but one might reason
that d6 may have matched these query
words in scattered manner
so maybe the topic of t6 is not really
about the topical of the query so the
discussion of campaign at the beginning
of the document
may have nothing to do with the meaning
of presidential at the end in general if
you think about the loan documents they
would have a higher chance to match any
query in fact if you generate a long
document that randomly by assembly
Semmering words from a distribution of
words then eventually you probably will
match any query so in this sense we
should penalize non documents because
they just naturally have better chances
to match any query and this is the idea
of document lands from
we also need to be careful in avoiding
to over canonized non documents on the
one hand we want to paralyze a long
document but on the other hand we also
don't want to over penalize them now the
reasoning is because a document that may
be long because of different reasons in
one case the document may be known
because it uses more words so for
example think about the full-text
article of a research paper it would use
more words than the corresponding
abstract so this is the case where we
probably should penalize the matching of
long documents such as for paper when we
compare the matching of words in such a
long document with matching of the words
in the shot abstract then long papers
generally have a higher chance of
matching clear award therefore we should
penalize them however there was another
case when the document is long and that
is when the document is simple has more
content now consider another case of a
long document where we simply
concatenate a lot of abstracts of
different papers in such a case
obviously we don't want to over penalize
such a long document indeed we probably
don't want to penalize such a document
because it's long so that's why we need
to be careful about using the right
degree of penalisation a method that has
been working well based on researcher
results is called a pivotal ends
normalization and in this case the idea
is to use the average lock in the lens
as a pivot as a reference point that
means we'll assume that for the average
lens documents the score is about right
so the normalizer would be 1 but if the
document is longer than the average
document length then there will be some
paralyzation whereas if it's shorter
then there's
innocent
or so this is the illustrator using this
slide on the axis x axis you can see the
lens of document on the y axis we show
the normalizer in this case the pivot
remains from addition formula for the
normalizer is is seeing to be
interpolation of one and the normalized
the document lens controlled by a
parameter b here so you can see here we
first divide the lens of the document by
the average of the lens this not only
gives us some sense about how this
document is compared with the average
document lens but also gives us a
benefit of not worrying about the unit
of lens we can measure the lens by words
or by characters anyway this non riser
has an interesting property first we see
that if we set the parameter P to 0 then
the value would be 1 so there's no a pen
lens relation at all so P in this sense
controls the lens normal-ish
whereas if we set me to a non-zero value
then the normalizer would look like this
right so the value would be higher for
documents that are longer than the
average looking lens whereas the value
of the normalizer would be shot will be
smaller for shorter documents so in this
sense we see there is a panel ization
for long documents and there is a reward
for short documents the degree of
chronology is controlled by B because if
I set B to a larger value then the
normalizer would look like this there's
even more penalisation for long
documents the more reward
documents by adjusting P which varies
from 0 to 1 we can control the degree of
Lancer Malaysia so if we plug in this
lens or Malaysian factor into the vector
space model ranking functions that we
have already examined then we will end
up having the following formulas and
these are in fact the state of that
vector space model formulas so let's
talk and let's take a look at each of
them the first one is called a pivot
area normalization factor space model
and a reference in the end has detail
about the derivation of this model and
you will see that it's basically the
tf-idf weighting model that we have
discussed the idea of component it
should be very familiar now to you there
is also a query from frequency component
here and then in the middle there is the
normalizer TF and in this case we see we
use the double logarithm as we discussed
before and this isn't to achieve a sub
linear transformation but we also put
poking the lens normalizer in the bottom
right so this would cause penalizing for
long document because the larger the
denominator denominator is then the
smaller the TF weight is and this is of
course controlled by the parameter P
here and you can see again be easy to 0
and there there is no lens for Malaysia
okay so this is one of the two most
effective Baptist base model formulas
the next one called BM 2500 copy is also
similar in that it also has a IDF
component here and accurate here
component here but in the middle the
normalization is a little bit different
as we explained there is this a copy TF
transformation here and that the sub
linear transformation with the upper
bound in this case we have put the lens
normalization factor here we are
adjusting K but it achieves a similar
factor just because we put a normalizer
in the denominator therefore again if a
document is longer than the tongue
weight will be smaller so you can see
after we have gone through all the
analysis that we talked about and we
have in the end reach the basically the
state-of-the-art regional functions so
so far we have talked about the mainly
how to place the docking the vector in
the vector space and this has played an
important role in determining the
effectiveness of the retrieval function
but there are also other dimensions
where we did not really examine detail
for example can we further improve the
instantiation of the dimension of the
vector space model now we've just
assumed that the bag of words
representation so it should I mentioned
the world but obviously we can consider
many other choices for example stamina
words those are the words that have been
transformed into the same Road phone so
that computation and computing will all
become the same and they can be matched
we can do stop water removal this is to
remove some very common words that don't
carry any content and I get the off we
can use the phrases to define by many
means we can even use later the semantic
analysis to find some clusters of words
that represent allayed in the concept at
one time
we can also use smaller units like a
character in grams
those are sequences of characters for
dimensions however in practice people
have found that the bag of words
representation with the phrases is the
other the most effective one
and it's also efficient so this is still
so far the most popular dimension
instantiation method and it's used in
all the major search engines I should
also mention that sometimes we need to
do a lamb which is specific and domain
specific organization and this is
actually very important as we might have
variations of terms that might prevent
us from matching them with each other
even though they mean the same thing in
some languages like Chinese the
resources the cannon in segmenting texts
to obtain word boundaries because it's
just a sequence of characters a war
might might correspond to one character
or two characters or even three
characters so it's easier in English
when we have a space to separate the
words but in some other languages we may
need to do some natural language
processing to figure out though where
are the boundaries for words there is
also a possibility to improve the
similarity function and so far we have
used as a dot product but one can
imagine there are other measures for
example we can measure the cosine of the
angle between two vectors or we can use
Euclidean distance measure and these are
all possible but dot product seems to
still the best and one reason is because
it's very general in fact it's
sufficient in the general if you
consider the possibilities of doing
weighting in different ways so for
example cosine machine can be regarded
as the dot product of two
normalize the vectors that means we
first normalize each factor and then we
take the dot product that would be
equivalent to the cosine measure I just
mentioned that the p.m. 25 seems to be
one of the most effective formulas but
there has been also further development
in improving BM 25 although none of
these works have changed at the end when
I arrived from Manderley so in one line
work people have derived the p.m. 25 F
here F stands for field this is to use
BM 25 in for tokens with the structures
so for example you might consider title
field the abstract or body of a research
article or even anchor text on the web
pages those of the text fields that
describe links to other pages and these
can all be combined with appropriate
weights on different fields to help
improve scoring for a document when we
use BM 25 for such a document and the
obvious choice is to apply them 2542
field and then combine the scores
basically the idea of BM 25 F is to
first combine the frequency counts of
terms in all the fields and then apply
the m25 now this has the advantage of
avoiding over counting the first
occurrence of the time remember in the
sub linear transformation of TF the
first occurrence is very important and
it contributes a large weight if we do
that for all the fields then the same
term might have gained a lot of
advantage in every field but when we
combine these word frequencies together
we just do the transformation at one
time at that time then the extra
occurrences will not be counted as fresh
first recurrences and this method has
been working very well for scorer
instructor the documents the other line
of exchanging is called a p.m. 25 plus
in this line
researchers have addressed to the
problem of over paralyzation of long
documents by IBM 25 so to address this
problem the fix is actually quite simple
we can simply add a small consonant to
the TF memorization formula but what's
interesting is that we can analytically
prove that by doing such a small
modification we will fix the problem of
a over canonization of long documents by
the original PM 25 so the new formula
called DM 25 plus is empirically and an
inny traditional to be petted than BM 25
so to summarize all what we have said
about the vector space model here are
the major takeaway points first in such
a model we use the similarity notion of
relevance assuming that revenues of a
document with respect to a query is
basically proportional to the similarity
between the query involvement so
naturally that implies that the query
end document must be represented in the
same way and in this case we'll
represent them as vectors in high
dimensional vector space where the
dimensions are defined by words or
concepts or terms in general and we
generally need to use a lot of
heuristics to design the ranking
function we used some examples to show
the need for several heuristics
including Kiev wedding and
transformation and IDF wedding and
docking the lens from relation these
major heuristics are the most important
of heuristics to ensure such a general
ranking function to work well for all
kinds of text and finally be m25 and
pivot in a normalization
seem to be the most effective formulas
out of them act space model now I have
to say that I've put P m25 in the
category of vector space model but in
fact the B m25 has been derived using
probabilistic modeling so the reason why
I've put it in
the vector space model is first the
ranking function actually has a nice
interpretation in the vector space model
we can easy to see it looks very much
like a backward space model with a
special weighting function the second
reason is because the original PM 25 has
a somewhat different the form of ID F
and that form of ID F actually doesn't
really work so well as the standard IDF
that you have seen here so as an
effective retrieval function e m25
should probably use a heuristic
modification of the IDF to make them
even more look like a vector space model
there are some additional readings the
first is a paper about the pivoted lens
from radiation it's an excellent example
of using empirical data analysis to
suggest the meaning the form and from
relation and then further derive the
lens from radiation formula the second
that is the original paper where m25 was
proposed the third paper has a thorough
discussion of PM 25 and it's extensions
particularly PM 25f and finally the last
paper has a discussion of improving PM
25 to correct the over canonization of
long documents
[Music]